website/src/docs/contributing.md, before:

---
title: "Contributing"
type: docs
order: 4
---

## Uppy development

Fork the repository into your own account first. See the [GitHub Help](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) article for instructions.

After you have successfully forked the repo, clone and install the project:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:YOUR_USERNAME/uppy.git
cd uppy
npm install
```

Our website’s examples section is also our playground, please read the [Local Previews](#Local-Previews) section to get up and running.

## Tests

Unit tests are using Jest and can be run with:

`npm run test:unit`

For acceptance (or end-to-end) tests, we use [Webdriverio](http://webdriver.io). For it to run locally, you need to install a Selenium standalone server. Just follow [the guide](http://webdriver.io/guide.html) to do so. You can also install a Selenium standalone server from NPM:

```bash
npm install selenium-standalone -g
selenium-standalone install
```

And then launch it:

`selenium-standalone start`

After you have installed and launched the selenium standalone server, run:

`npm run test:acceptance:local`

These tests are also run automatically on Travis builds with [SauceLabs](https://saucelabs.com/) cloud service using different OSes.

## Releases

Before doing a release, check that the examples on the website work:

```bash
npm start
open http://localhost:4000/examples/dashboard
```

Also check the other examples:

```bash
cd examples/EXAMPLENAME
npm install
npm start
```

Releases are managed by [Lerna](https://github.com/lerna/lerna/tree/2.x). We do some cleanup and compile work around releases too. Use the npm release script:

```bash
npm run release
```

If you have two factor authentication enabled on your npm account, you will need to temporarily disable it when doing an uppy release. Lerna doesn't support 2FA, and while there are workarounds, they don't reliably work for us. (In particular, using the `npm_config_otp` environment variable will fail because the token expires by the time the release script starts publishing anything.)

```bash
npm profile disable-2fa
npm run release
npm profile enable-2fa auth-only
```

Other things to keep in mind during release:

* When doing a minor release below 1.0, or a major release >= 1.0, of the `@uppy/core` package, the peerDependency of the plugin packages needs to be updated first. Eg when updating from 0.25.5 to 0.26.0, the peerDependency of each should be `"@uppy/core": "^0.26.0"` before doing `npm run release`.

After a release, the demos on transloadit.com should also be updated. After updating, check that some things work locally:

 - the demos in the demo section work (try one that uses an import robot, and one that you need to upload to)
 - the demos on the homepage work and can import from GDrive, Insta, Dropbox

If you don't have access to the transloadit.com source code ping @arturi or @goto-bus-stop and we'll pick it up. :sparkles:

## Website development

We keep the [uppy.io](http://uppy.io) website in `./website`, so it’s easy to keep docs and code in sync as we are still iterating at high velocity.

The site is built with [Hexo](http://hexo.io/), and Travis automatically deploys this onto GitHub Pages (it overwrites the `gh-pages` branch with Hexo's build at every change to `master`). The content is written in Markdown and located in `./website/src`. Feel free to fork & hack!

Even though bundled in this repo, the website is regarded as a separate project. As such, it has its own `package.json` and we aim to keep the surface where the two projects interface as small as possible. `./website/update.js` is called during website builds to inject the Uppy knowledge into the site.

### Local previews

It is recommended to exclude `./website/public/` from your editor if you want efficient searches.

To install the required node modules, type:

```bash
npm install && cd website && npm install && cd ..
```

For local previews on http://127.0.0.1:4000, type:

```bash
npm start
```

This will watch the website, as well as Uppy, as the examples, and rebuild everything and refresh your browser as files change.

Then, to work on, for instance, the XHRUpload example, you would edit the following files:

```bash
atom src/core/Core.js \
  src/plugins/XHRUpload.js \
  src/plugins/Plugin.js \
  website/src/examples/xhrupload/app.es6
```

And open <http://0.0.0.0:4000/examples/xhrupload/> in your web browser.

## CSS guidelines

The CSS standards followed in this project closely resemble those from [Medium's CSS Guidelines](https://gist.github.com/fat/a47b882eb5f84293c4ed). If something is not mentioned here, follow their guidelines.

### Naming conventions

This project uses naming conventions adopted from the SUIT CSS framework.
[Read about them here](https://github.com/suitcss/suit/blob/master/doc/naming-conventions.md).

To quickly summarize:

#### Utilities

Syntax: u-[sm-|md-|lg-]<utilityName>

```css
.u-utilityName
.u-floatLeft
.u-lg-col6
```

#### Components

Syntax: [<namespace>-]<ComponentName>[-descendentName][--modifierName]

```css
.twt-Button /* Namespaced component */
.MyComponent /* Components pascal cased */
.Button--default /* Modified button style */
.Button--large

.Tweet
.Tweet-header /* Descendents */
.Tweet-bodyText

.Accordion.is-collapsed /* State of component */
.Accordion.is-expanded
```

### SASS

This project uses SASS, with some limitations on nesting.  One-level-deep nesting is allowed, but nesting may not extend a selector by using the `&` operator.  For example:

```sass
/* BAD */
.Button {
  &--disabled {
    ...
  }
}

/* GOOD */
.Button {
  ...
}

.Button--disabled {
  ...
}
```

### Mobile-first responsive approach

Style to the mobile breakpoint with your selectors, then use `min-width` media queries to add any styles to the tablet or desktop breakpoints.

### Selector, rule ordering

- All selectors are sorted alphabetically and by type.
- HTML elements go above classes and IDs in a file.
- Rules are sorted alphabetically.

```sass
/* BAD */
.wrapper {
  width: 940px;
  margin: auto;
}

h1 {
  color: red;
}

.article {
  width: 100%;
  padding: 32px;
}

/* GOOD */
h1 {
  color: red;
}

.article {
  padding: 32px;
  width: 100%;
}

.wrapper {
  margin: auto;
  width: 940px;
}
```

Commit message:

fix install / bootstrap execution order

website/src/docs/contributing.md, after:

---
title: "Contributing"
type: docs
order: 4
---

## Uppy development

Fork the repository into your own account first. See the [GitHub Help](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) article for instructions.

After you have successfully forked the repo, clone and install the project:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:YOUR_USERNAME/uppy.git
cd uppy
npm install
npm run bootstrap
```

We use lerna to manage the many plugin packages Uppy has. You should always do `npm run bootstrap` after an `npm install` to make sure lerna has installed the dependencies of each package and that the `package-lock.json` in the repository root is up to date.

Our website’s examples section is also our playground, please read the [Local Previews](#Local-Previews) section to get up and running.

## Tests

Unit tests are using Jest and can be run with:

`npm run test:unit`

For acceptance (or end-to-end) tests, we use [Webdriverio](http://webdriver.io). For it to run locally, you need to install a Selenium standalone server. Just follow [the guide](http://webdriver.io/guide.html) to do so. You can also install a Selenium standalone server from NPM:

```bash
npm install selenium-standalone -g
selenium-standalone install
```

And then launch it:

`selenium-standalone start`

After you have installed and launched the selenium standalone server, run:

`npm run test:acceptance:local`

These tests are also run automatically on Travis builds with [SauceLabs](https://saucelabs.com/) cloud service using different OSes.

## Releases

Before doing a release, check that the examples on the website work:

```bash
npm start
open http://localhost:4000/examples/dashboard
```

Also check the other examples:

```bash
cd examples/EXAMPLENAME
npm install
npm start
```

Releases are managed by [Lerna](https://github.com/lerna/lerna/tree/2.x). We do some cleanup and compile work around releases too. Use the npm release script:

```bash
npm run release
```

If you have two factor authentication enabled on your npm account, you will need to temporarily disable it when doing an uppy release. Lerna doesn't support 2FA, and while there are workarounds, they don't reliably work for us. (In particular, using the `npm_config_otp` environment variable will fail because the token expires by the time the release script starts publishing anything.)

```bash
npm profile disable-2fa
npm run release
npm profile enable-2fa auth-only
```

Other things to keep in mind during release:

* When doing a minor release below 1.0, or a major release >= 1.0, of the `@uppy/core` package, the peerDependency of the plugin packages needs to be updated first. Eg when updating from 0.25.5 to 0.26.0, the peerDependency of each should be `"@uppy/core": "^0.26.0"` before doing `npm run release`.

After a release, the demos on transloadit.com should also be updated. After updating, check that some things work locally:

 - the demos in the demo section work (try one that uses an import robot, and one that you need to upload to)
 - the demos on the homepage work and can import from GDrive, Insta, Dropbox

If you don't have access to the transloadit.com source code ping @arturi or @goto-bus-stop and we'll pick it up. :sparkles:

## Website development

We keep the [uppy.io](http://uppy.io) website in `./website`, so it’s easy to keep docs and code in sync as we are still iterating at high velocity.

The site is built with [Hexo](http://hexo.io/), and Travis automatically deploys this onto GitHub Pages (it overwrites the `gh-pages` branch with Hexo's build at every change to `master`). The content is written in Markdown and located in `./website/src`. Feel free to fork & hack!

Even though bundled in this repo, the website is regarded as a separate project. As such, it has its own `package.json` and we aim to keep the surface where the two projects interface as small as possible. `./website/update.js` is called during website builds to inject the Uppy knowledge into the site.

### Local previews

It is recommended to exclude `./website/public/` from your editor if you want efficient searches.

To install the required node modules, type:

```bash
npm install && cd website && npm install && cd ..
```

For local previews on http://127.0.0.1:4000, type:

```bash
npm start
```

This will watch the website, as well as Uppy, as the examples, and rebuild everything and refresh your browser as files change.

Then, to work on, for instance, the XHRUpload example, you would edit the following files:

```bash
atom src/core/Core.js \
  src/plugins/XHRUpload.js \
  src/plugins/Plugin.js \
  website/src/examples/xhrupload/app.es6
```

And open <http://0.0.0.0:4000/examples/xhrupload/> in your web browser.

## CSS guidelines

The CSS standards followed in this project closely resemble those from [Medium's CSS Guidelines](https://gist.github.com/fat/a47b882eb5f84293c4ed). If something is not mentioned here, follow their guidelines.

### Naming conventions

This project uses naming conventions adopted from the SUIT CSS framework.
[Read about them here](https://github.com/suitcss/suit/blob/master/doc/naming-conventions.md).

To quickly summarize:

#### Utilities

Syntax: u-[sm-|md-|lg-]<utilityName>

```css
.u-utilityName
.u-floatLeft
.u-lg-col6
```

#### Components

Syntax: [<namespace>-]<ComponentName>[-descendentName][--modifierName]

```css
.twt-Button /* Namespaced component */
.MyComponent /* Components pascal cased */
.Button--default /* Modified button style */
.Button--large

.Tweet
.Tweet-header /* Descendents */
.Tweet-bodyText

.Accordion.is-collapsed /* State of component */
.Accordion.is-expanded
```

### SASS

This project uses SASS, with some limitations on nesting.  One-level-deep nesting is allowed, but nesting may not extend a selector by using the `&` operator.  For example:

```sass
/* BAD */
.Button {
  &--disabled {
    ...
  }
}

/* GOOD */
.Button {
  ...
}

.Button--disabled {
  ...
}
```

### Mobile-first responsive approach

Style to the mobile breakpoint with your selectors, then use `min-width` media queries to add any styles to the tablet or desktop breakpoints.

### Selector, rule ordering

- All selectors are sorted alphabetically and by type.
- HTML elements go above classes and IDs in a file.
- Rules are sorted alphabetically.

```sass
/* BAD */
.wrapper {
  width: 940px;
  margin: auto;
}

h1 {
  color: red;
}

.article {
  width: 100%;
  padding: 32px;
}

/* GOOD */
h1 {
  color: red;
}

.article {
  padding: 32px;
  width: 100%;
}

.wrapper {
  margin: auto;
  width: 940px;
}
```
